PYTHON MEMORY MANAGEMENT

Some terms :

Memory Leak : Memory leak occurs when programmers create a memory in heap and forget to delete it. Memory leaks are particularly serious issues for programs like daemons and servers, which by definition, never terminate.
Garbage Collection : Garbage Collection is a process of reclaiming the runtime unused memory automatically. Resources other than memory, such as network sockets, database handles, user interaction windows, and file and device descriptors, are not typically handled by garbage collection. Methods used to manage such resources, particularly destructors, may suffice to manage memory as well, leaving no need for GC.
Manual Garbage collection : Garbage collectors typically do not attempt to optimize the use of resources other than memory. If you only want throughput then you don’t need to do manual garbage collection, but if you have resource constraint then you need to do it to use your resources in an optimized manner.

RUN TIME MEMORY

in run time storage the data is stored in segments such as text segment(Code segment ) , data segment , stack segment and heap segment 

where :
      -->Code segment :where the compiled program sits in memory
      --> Global area : initilized data segment...store e global, static and constant data 
      -->stack segment : where parameter and local variable are allocated
      --> Heap segment : where dynamically allocated variables are allocated
How Program manage runtime memory Stack vs Heap?

STACK
the stack frame contains parameters retrun address , dynamic link , static link , return value and local varaible
-->memory use in stack is temperory and auto release 
-->fast processing/low size

HEAP
--> large pool of memory 
-->dynamic allocation
-->must be accessed through a pointer
large and dynamic
                
Memory Allocator
How Python allocates memory?

Pymalloc is a Python memory allocator, which was written by Vladimir Marangozov. It was introduced with Python 2.1 and become the default with 2.3

Python Use lots of small objects that get created and destroyed frequently

To avoid multiple malloc() and free() call for these purposes, python uses 256KB memory chunk called arena, divided by the 4KB pool

#### Lets see how memory gets allocated and freed by python

Check if any pool already been divided into the block of required size. Each Pool is a singly linked list of each block
If we found such pool we pop a block off of the list and return back to the application
If there is no such pool available we will find from free pools linked list, if there is pool available we will pop it off else we create a new pool
Similarly, if last memory is full we will pop off arena base pointer if there is no space we will use malloc() and create new space
Similarly for freeing memory similar procedure happened and then allocator put that pool to the free pool list


If you able to visualise these, congrats you understood how memory allocator works 🎉

Memory usage by Python
How much python use memory for different data type?

Unlike ‘C’, Python doesn’t specify data type before assigning value to object. Thus, different data objects behave differently with python
On different systems (32 Bit, 64 Bit, Linux, Windows) python use different Byte data for the same object

Some tool to debug
Memory_profiler: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/memory_profiler
pympler: https://pythonhosted.org/Pympler/muppy.html
Vprof: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/vprof/

